Dostoyevsky - The Idiot
One of them was a young fellow of about twenty-seven, not
tall, with black curling hair, and small, grey, fiery eyes. His
nose was broad and flat, and he had high cheek bones; his
thin lips were constantly compressed into an impudent,
ironical—it might almost be called a malicious—smile; but
his forehead was high and well formed, and atoned for a
good deal of the ugliness of the lower part of his face.

Conrad - Lord Jim
Only once in all that time he had again the glimpse of the
earnestness in the anger of the sea. That truth is not so often
made apparent as people might think. There are many shades in
the danger of adventures and gales, and it is only now and then
that there appears on the face of facts a sinister violence of
intention—that indefinable something which forces it upon the
mind and the heart of a man, that this complication of accidents
or these elemental furies are coming at him with a purpose of
malice, with a strength beyond control, with an unbridled
cruelty that means to tear out of him his hope and his fear, the
pain of his fatigue and his longing for rest

Mansfield - The Garden Party
The breeze of morning lifted in the bush and the smell of
leaves and wet black earth mingled with the sharp smell of
the sea. Myriads of birds were singing. A goldfinch flew over
the shepherd's head and, perching on the tiptop of a spray, it
turned to the sun, ruffling its small breast feathers. And now
they had passed the fisherman's hut, passed the charred-
looking little whare where Leila the milk-girl lived with her
old Gran.

Bronte - The Tenant of Wildfell Hall
But if he intended the speech to be hailed as a master-stroke
of wit, he signally failed, for nobody laughed. However, he
was not much disconcerted at that; for when he had taken a
mouthful of bread and butter and was about to swallow a
gulp of tea, the humour of the thing burst upon him with
such irresistible force, that he was obliged to jump up from
the table, and rush snorting and choking from the room; and
a minute after, was heard screaming in fearful agony in the
garden.

Poe - The Pit and the Pendulum
A fearful idea now suddenly drove the blood in torrents upon my
heart, and for a brief period, I once more relapsed into
insensibility. Upon recovering, I at once started to my feet,
trembling convulsively in every fibre. I thrust my arms wildly
above and around me in all directions. I felt nothing; yet dreaded
to move a step, lest I should be impeded by the walls of a tomb.
